TINY-8323: release notes 5.10.3 (#2227)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: release-notes/release-notes5103.md

- The Enhanced Media Embed plugin, see: [Enhanced Media Embed plugin]({{site.baseurl}}/plugins/premium/mediaembed/).
- Deploying the server-side components, see: [Server-side component installation]({{site.baseurl}}/enterprise/server/).

### Updating the self-hosted server-side components

The new versions of the server-side services provide updates for the Java-based server-side components. To deploy the updated version of the server-side components:

1. Update your Java Application Server to the minimum required version:

    - Eclipse Jetty 9.4 or later
    - Apache Tomcat:
        - 9 or later
        - 8.5.12+
        - 8.0.42+
        - 7.0.76+

2. Replace the existing server-side `.war` files with the `.war` files bundled with {{site.productname}} 5103 or later.

For information on:

- Deploying the server-side components, see: [Server-side component installation]({{site.baseurl}}/enterprise/server/).
- Deploying the server-side components using Docker, see: [Containerized service deployments]({{site.baseurl}}/enterprise/server/dockerservices/).

## General bug fixes

{{site.productname}} 5.10.3 provides fixes for the following bugs:

> - Fixed changing the alignment of an inline image removes the alignment of the parent.
> - Fixed when toggling back from fullscreen mode, the scrollbar position is incorrect.

Reviewer: These have grammar issues and aren't what was originally in the changelog, so let's use what was there originally instead as that's what we normally do (unless it needs minor rewording):
```suggestion
- Alignment would sometimes be removed on parent elements when changing alignment on certain inline nodes, such as images.
- The `fullscreen` plugin would incorrectly reset the scroll position when exiting fullscreen mode.
```

Author: fixed

Reviewer: Not fixed... you've still changed them and they have grammar issues. We also shouldn't start it with fixed, as the section heading/intro already mentions they are fixes.

Reviewer: Have fixed this myself as mentioned in slack.

Reviewer 2: editorial suggestion from the new guy:

\+ {{site.productname}} 5.10.3 fixes the following bugs:

\+ - in some circumstances (for example, with images), changing inline node alignments removed the parent element’s alignment.

\+ - the `fullscreen` plugin incorrectly reset the scroll position when exiting fullscreen mode.

## Security fixes

{{site.productname}} 5.10.3 provides fixes for the following security issues:

> All 3 server-side components have been updated to include dependency updates addressing security issues. This includes High severity vulnerability fixes.

Reviewer: @tjdett can you please double check this? I believe the issues were only Low severity IIRC.

Author: i've updated to Medium to match this report https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2021-42550
happy to change

Author: have confirmed with tjdett, is Low

---
layout: default
title: TinyMCE 5.10.3
title_nav: TinyMCE 5.10.3
description: Release notes for TinyMCE 5.10.3
keywords: releasenotes bugfixes
---

## Overview

{{site.productname}} 5.10.3 was released for {{site.enterpriseversion}} and {{site.cloudname}} Tuesday, February 15<sup>th</sup>, 2022. It includes {{site.productname}} 5.10.3 and additional changes to premium plugins. These release notes provide an overview of the changes for {{site.productname}} 5.10.3, including:

- [Accompanying Premium self-hosted server-side component changes](#accompanyingpremiumself-hostedserver-sidecomponentchanges)
- [General bug fixes](#generalbugfixes)
- [Security fixes](#securityfixes)
- [Upgrading to the latest version of TinyMCE 5](#upgradingtothelatestversionoftinymce5)

{{site.releasenotes_for_stable}}

## Accompanying Premium self-hosted server-side component changes

> The {{site.productname}} 5103 release includes accompanying changes affecting the {{site.productname}} **self-hosted** services for the following plugins:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {{site.productname}} 5.10.3 release includes accompanying changes affecting the {{site.productname}} **self-hosted** services for the following plugins:
```

> The {{site.productname}} 5.10.3 release includes accompanying changes affecting the {{site.productname}} **self-hosted** services for the following plugins:

Reviewer 2: Suggested tweak:

\+ The {{site.productname}} 5.10.3 release includes changes affecting the {{site.productname}} **self-hosted** services for the following plugins:

Reviewer: This is a template thing, so if we're changing this we need to change others: https://github.com/tinymce/tinymce-docs/blob/main/_new_content_templates/blank_releasenotes.md#accompanying-premium-self-hosted-server-side-component-changes

### Updating the self-hosted server-side components

The new versions of the server-side services provide updates for the Java-based server-side components. To deploy the updated version of the server-side components:

1. Update your Java Application Server to the minimum required version:

    - Eclipse Jetty 9.4 or later
    - Apache Tomcat:
        - 9 or later
        - 8.5.12+
        - 8.0.42+
        - 7.0.76+

2. Replace the existing server-side `.war` files with the `.war` files bundled with {{site.productname}} 5103 or later.

For information on:

- Deploying the server-side components, see: [Server-side component installation]({{site.baseurl}}/enterprise/server/).
- Deploying the server-side components using Docker, see: [Containerized service deployments]({{site.baseurl}}/enterprise/server/dockerservices/).

## General bug fixes

{{site.productname}} 5.10.3 provides fixes for the following bugs:

- Fixed alignment would sometimes be removed on parent elements when changing alignment on certain inline nodes, such as images.
- Fixed the `fullscreen` plugin would incorrectly reset the scroll position when exiting fullscreen mode.

## Security fixes

> {{site.productname}} 5.10.3 provides fixes for the following security issues:

Reviewer 2: suggested tweak:

\+ {{site.productname}} 5.10.3 fixes the following security issues:

\+ All 3 server-side components updates include dependency updates that address security issues. This includes Low severity vulnerability fixes.
